OFFICIAL RULEBOOK Version 10
---
Table of Contents Table of Contents

l About the Game .......................................................................... 1

1 Getting Started 4 Battles and Chains
l Things you need to Duel ............................................................ 2 l Monster Battle Rules .............................................................. 41
l The Game Mat ............................................................................. 4 l Chains and Spell Speed ............................................................ 44
2 Game Cards 5
l Monster Cards .......................................................................... 6 Other Rules
l Effect Monsters ........................................................................ 9 l Other Rules .............................................................................. 49
l Link Monsters ......................................................................... 12 l Glossary ................................................................................... 52
l Pendulum Monsters ................................................................ 16
l Xyz Monsters ........................................................................... 18
l Synchro Monsters ................................................................... 20
l Fusion Monsters ...................................................................... 22
l Ritual Monsters ...................................................................... 23
l Summoning Monster Cards ..................................................... 24
l Spell & Trap Cards ................................................................... 26
3 How to Play
l Let the Duel Begin! ................................................................... 32
l Preparing to Duel ................................................................... 33
l Turn Structure ........................................................................ 34
i ii
---
What is the Yu-Gi-Oh! TRADING CARD GAME?
With the Yu-Gi-Oh! TRADING CARD GAME you can take part in the
exciting card game action seen in the family of Yu-Gi-Oh! TV and
comic mega-hits.
In this game, two players Duel each other using a variety of Monster,
Spell, and Trap Cards to defeat their opponent’s monsters and be the
first to drop the other’s LP (Life Points) to 0.
Everything you need to start playing is in this Deck, but there are
thousands more cards to choose from, so collecting additional cards
in Booster Packs will let you customize your Deck and increase your
chances of winning!

This is the official Yu-Gi-Oh! TRADING CARD GAME rulebook. It’s
important to learn how to play correctly, so you should read this
rulebook before playing if you’re new to the game. Understanding
the rules will help you make the best use of your cards, so keep
the rulebook handy during your first few games. You can also visit
www.yugioh-card.com for more information.
ABOUT THE GAME
CREATE YOUR OWN DECK
With thousands of cards to choose from, you can create and
customize your own Deck with your favorite cards. Every Duelist
will have their own unique Deck, completely different from every
other Duelist’s Deck, which makes it really exciting to play!



BATTLE WITH FANTASTIC MONSTERS & GREAT COMBOS

Even if a card does not have enough power on its own,
it may become powerful when combined
with other cards. It’s fun to collect all the
different cards available and create your
own combos, then unleash them in a Duel.



POWER UP YOUR DECK WITH BOOSTER PACKS
Booster Packs are released every few months,
bringing new cards and new combos to add new
strength to your Deck. Duels evolve every time
a new Booster Pack is released, keeping your
Duels cool and exciting.

iii 1
---
Getting Started Getting Started
1
Things you need to Duel
Things you need to Duel
Deck ................................................(40 to 60 cards)

Assemble your favorite cards into a Deck that follows these rules:

lThe Deck must be 40 to 60 cards.
lYou can only have up to 3 copies of the same card in your Deck,
Extra Deck and Side Deck combined.
Also, some cards are Forbidden, Limited or Semi-Limited in official
tournaments. (See page 45 for details.)
Try to keep your Deck close to the 40-card minimum. Having a Deck
with too many cards makes it hard to draw your best cards when you
need them. This Deck is called your Main Deck.
Extra Deck ..........................................(0 to 15 cards)

This Deck consists of Xyz Monsters, Synchro Monsters and Fusion
Monsters, which can be used during the game if you meet certain
requirements. The rules for Extra Decks are:
lYou can have up to 15 cards in the Extra Deck.
lThe Extra Deck can contain Xyz Monsters, Synchro Monsters and
Fusion Monsters, in any combination.
lThese cards are not counted towards the 40-card minimum limit \
of your Main Deck.
Side Deck ...........................................(0 to 15 cards)
This is a separate Deck of cards you can use to change your Deck
during a Match. After each Duel in a Match, you can swap any card
from your Side Deck with a card from your Deck and/or Extra Deck to
customize your strategy against your opponent. The number of cards in
your Side Decks must not exceed 15. The number of cards in your Side
Deck before and after you swap any cards must be exactly the same.2
Additional items you may need Getting Started


Coin Dice
Some cards require a coin toss. If you Just like the coin, there are some
play with these, have a coin ready to cards that need a die roll. If you play
flip. with these, have a standard die ready
with numbers 1 through 6.





Counters Monster Tokens
Some cards will require markers Tokens are used to represent
(called counters) to keep track of monsters that can be created by card
things like the number of turns, or a effects. Any object used for a Token
card’s power level. You can use small needs to have two distinct ways to
objects like glass beads, paper clips, place it that can clearly indicate the
or pennies for the counters, which are monster’s battle position. (See page
then placed on these face-up cards. 45 for details.)



Items which can help during a Duel
Calculator Card Sleeves
LP changes quickly during a Duel. It’s Plastic sleeves can prevent your cards
smart to use a calculator to keep track from getting bent or scratched. If you
of your LP. During important Duels, use card sleeves, they all have to be
you should track your LP on paper as the same so your cards aren’t marked.
well to be extra-careful.

3
---
THE GAME MAT
THE GAME MAT
The Game Mat helps you organize your cards 5
during a Duel. When you use your cards you place
them on the Game Mat. Different kinds of cards
are placed in different Zones.
Each Duelist needs their own Game Mat; place
them together while Dueling. This combined space 6
is known as “the field.” The Game Mat contained
in this product is just for your half of the field.
The cards you “control” are the cards on your side
of the field.
You can also Duel without using the Game Mat as
long as you remember where to place the cards.


This is where you put your monsters when they’re played.
You can have up to 5 cards here. There are 3 ways to
1 position your Monster Cards: face-up Attack Position,
Main Monster face-up Defense Position, and face-down Defense Position.
Zone Place the card upright for Attack Position, and sideways
for Defense Position.

This is where you put Spell & Trap Cards. You can have up to
2 5 cards here. You place them here face-up to activate them,
or place them face-down. Pendulum Monster Cards can be
Spell & Trap activated in the leftmost and rightmost zones as Spells. This
Zone causes the zone you use to also become a Pendulum Zone
Pendulum Zone for as long as the Pendulum Monster Card is there. (See
page 23 for details on Pendulum Monster Cards.)


When Monster Cards are destroyed, and when Spell &
Trap Cards are used, they’re sent face-up to this space.
3 The contents of both players’ Graveyards are public

Graveyard knowledge, and your opponent can look through yours at
any time during the Duel. The order of the cards in the
(GY) Graveyard should not be changed. Graveyard is shortened
in the card text to “GY”.
4
7 7


1 3




2 4




4 Your Deck is placed face-down in this space. You draw cards
from here to add to your hand. If a card effect requires you
to reveal cards from your Deck, or look through it, shuffle
Deck it and put it back in this space afterwards.


Special Spell Cards called Field Spell Cards are played here.
5 Each player can have 1 Field Spell Card on their own side

of the field. To use another Field Spell, send your previous
Field Zone one to the Graveyard. Field Spell Cards do not count
towards the 5-card limit of your Spell & Trap Zone.

Place your Extra Deck face-down in this space. You can
6 look at the cards in your own Extra Deck during the game.
Extra Deck During a Duel, Extra Deck Monsters may be Summoned

to the field from here using special methods. Pendulum
Monster Cards that would be sent from the field to the
Graveyard are placed face-up here.

This is where you put your monsters that are Summoned to
7 the field by special methods from the Extra Deck, like Link
Monsters and Fusion Monsters. Normally, each player can

Extra Monster only use 1 of these zones. A monster placed in this zone
Zone does not count towards the 5-monster limit of your Main
Monster Zone.
5
---
Game Cards 3 Attribute
2 Every monster has an Attribute. DARK EARTH FIRE
Monster Cards
Monster Cards This Attribute is sometimes
important for card effects. LIGHT WATER WIND
HOW TO READ A CARD
Game Cards1 Card Name 3 Attribute Game Cards
2 Level 4 Type
Monsters are divided into various Types. Some monsters with
specific abilities will have additional information here too, next to
their Type.

5 Card Number
7 Card 5 Card Number
Description A card’s identification number is found here. This number is useful
for collecting, and for sorting your collection.
4 Type 6 ATK (Attack Points)
DEF (Defense Points) 6 ATK (Attack Points) / DEF (Defense Points)
ATK is a monster’s Attack Points and DEF is a monster’s Defense
Points. High Attack and Defense Points are good when battling!

1 Card Name 2 Level
This is the card’s name. When a Count the number of stars here
card name is mentioned in card to find out the monster’s Level.
text it appears in quotations. If For Xyz Monsters, the number
cards have the same name, they of stars is the Rank of the
are considered to be the same monster, and is on left.
card.
6


7 Card Description
Card effects are written here, describing the monster’s special
abilities and how to use them. Normally, the effects of monsters
cannot be used while they are Set face-down on the field. Yellow
Normal Monster Cards do not have effects, and have a description
of them written here that does not affect the game.
7
ATK/ DEF/
---
WHAT IS A MONSTER CARD? <<< Effect Monsters
Monster Cards are used to battle and defeat your opponent. Battles
between Monster Cards are the foundation of any Duel. An Effect Monster is a monster
that has special abilities.
There are many kinds of Monster Cards. This game is more than a The effects of these monsters
simple slugfest, so monsters with high Attack and Defense Points will are split into four categories:
Game Cardsnot be enough. There are also monsters with strong special effects Game Cards
even though their ATK and DEF points are low. Therefore, your • Continuous Effect
success in a Duel depends on how skillfully you can make use of the • Ignition Effect
different kinds of cards. Let’s take a look at the different kinds of • Quick Effect
monsters. • Trigger Effect (including Flip)

<<< Normal Monsters
These are basic Monster Cards
without special abilities. Many
Normal Monsters have higher
Attack Points and Defense
Points than Effect Monsters,
instead of having special
abilities.
Continuous Effect
This effect is active while the Effect Monster Card is face-up on
the field. The effect starts when the face-up monster appears
on the field, and ends once that monster is gone or is no longer
face-up; there is no trigger for its activation. These monsters
are most useful if you have a strategy to protect them while
they are on the field.


Example Monsters with 2000 or less ATK cannot declare
an attack.

8 9
---
Ignition Effect Trigger Effect
You use this type of effect just by declaring its activation during These effects are activated at specific times, such as “during
your Main Phase. (See Turn Structure, page 30.) There are some the Standby Phase” or “when this monster is destroyed”. These
Ignition Effects that have a cost to activate, like discarding cards cards can make for some great combos, but it’s easier for your
from your hand, Tributing a monster, or paying LP. Because you opponent to predict what will happen, so they might try to stop
can choose when to activate this type of effect, it’s easy to you.
Game Cardscreate combos with them. Game Cards

Example You can Tribute this card, then target 1 monster Example When this card is destroyed by battle and sent to the
on the field; destroy that target. Graveyard: Target 1 card on the field; destroy that target.

Quick Effect
These are special monster effects that you can activate even
during your opponent’s turn. These types of effects have a
Spell Speed of 2, even though all other monster effects have a
Spell Speed of 1. (See Spell Speed, page 41.) Since it’s difficult for
your opponent to predict these cards, they can give them an
unexpected surprise.

(Formerly called Multi-Trigger Effects.)
Flip Effect
Flip effect is a part of the Trigger Effect.
This is an effect that is activated when a face-down card is
flipped face-up. This can happen when it is Flip Summoned,
attacked while face-down, or flipped face-up by a card effect.
These effects start with the word “FLIP:” on the card. When
you have a face-down monster, your opponent must be wary
because they don’t know if it has a Flip effect or not.


Example When an effect is activated (Quick Effect): Example FLIP: Draw 1 card.
You can target 1 card in your Graveyard; Special Summon it.

10 11
---
LINK MONSTERS
LINK MONSTERS HOW TO LINK SUMMON
A Link Monster is a new kind of 1 Check the materials of the Link Monster you want to Summon.
monster with the ability to increase During your Main Phase, declare that you are Link Summoning,
the number of monsters you can send a number of face-up monsters from your field to the
Summon from your Extra Deck. 2 Graveyard equal to the Link Rating of that Link Monster. They
In addition to the 1 Extra Monster must also match the material requirements listed in the monster’s
Zone you can usually use, you can “recipe” written on the card.
also Summon monsters from the 3 Place the Link Monster from your Extra Deck in the Extra Monster
Extra Deck to any of your Main Zone, or one of your Main Monster Zones that another Link
Monster Zones that has a Link Monster is pointing to.
Monster’s red arrow pointing to it.

Link Arrows - A Link Monster can apply
its effects on cards or zones that its lit-up,
red Link Arrows point to. When a Link
Monster’s red arrow points to a monster,
those monsters are “linked”. When two
Link Monsters have red arrows that point
at each other, they are “co-linked”.
If 2 Extra Monster Zones are available, you can choose either one to
Link Materials need
Materials you - These are the Linkto Summon this Summon your monster.
Monster. Use this “recipe” printed here If there is a Link Monster already on the field, you can Link Summon a
to Link Summon this monster. monster in one of your zones it points to.

LINK Rating - This is the number of Link
Arrows that monster has and the number
of monsters needed to Summon it.

12 13
---
LINK MONSTER BONUSES

Special Summon to
the Main Monster Zones
Monsters Summoned from the
Extra Deck normally have to go in
the Extra Monster Zone. But Link
Monsters open up more zones
for you to use, because every Special Summon monsters from
Main Monster Zone that a Link your Extra Deck in these zones!
Monster points to can also be
used to Summon monsters from your Extra Deck. Monsters that
started in the Extra Deck, but later end up in the Graveyard (or
are banished) and are Summoned from there, also go in the Main
Monster Zones (and don’t need a Link Monster to point to them).
MORE ABOUT LINK MONSTERS
MORE ABOUT LINK MONSTERS
Link Monsters have no DEF and cannot ever be in Defense Position.
They can’t be changed to Defense Position by a card effect. They
can’t even be flipped into face-down Defense Position.

If your opponent has a monster in the Extra Monster Zone, it’s still
a monster they control so you can’t attack directly. You have to
battle and destroy all their monsters first, including the one in the
Extra Monster Zone.

If you take control of your opponent’s monster in the Extra Monster
Zone, it moves to your Main Monster Zone. When it goes back to
your opponent, it goes to their Main Monster Zone, not the Extra
Monster Zone.

Link Monsters already on the field make great material!
Normally, 1 monster equals 1 Link Material. But when you use a
Link Monster as material for another Link Summon, you can count
it as either 1 monster, or as a number of monsters equal to its
Link Rating. For example, if you want to Summon a Link 3 monster
that requires 2 or more materials in its “recipe”, you can either
use 3 monsters (each counts as 1 material) or else a Link 2 Link
Monster (counts as 1 or 2 materials) and a second monster (counts
as 1 material).

As long as the materials meet the requirements of the Link Monster
you want to Summon, you can use a Token or Trap Card that is
treated as a monster as the Link Material.
Remember that when you Link Summon, you need to meet 3 goals:

• The amount of materials you use matches the Link Rating (Link
Monsters count as 1 OR their own Link Rating).

• The number of materials you use meets the number specified in
the materials line or “recipe”.

• The materials match any other requirements in the materials line
(such as only Effect Monsters, or only a specific Type of monster).

OR

14 15
---
PENDULUM MONSTER CARDS
PENDULUM MONSTER CARDS HOW TO PENDULUM SUMMON
STARGAZER MAGIciAn During your Main Phase, activate Pendulum Monster
Pendulum Monster Cards Cards as Spell Cards in your leftmost and rightmost Spell
are a unique kind of card 1 & Trap Zones. These Spell & Trap Zones also become
Pendulum Zones.
that blurs the line between
Monsters and Spells! They can After you have one in each Pendulum Zone, once
be Summoned as monsters to 2 per turn during your Main Phase, declare that you’re
attack or defend, or you can Pendulum Summoning.
activate them as Spell Cards Check the Pendulum Scales on the sides of your 2
in your Pendulum Zones to Pendulum Monster Cards, then Special Summon as many
activate extra special abilities 3 monsters as you want from your hand and as many face-
up Pendulum Monsters from your Extra Deck, whose
and allow you to Pendulum Levels are in between those Pendulum Scales.
Summon!

Pendulum Effect - When you play this
card as a Spell Card in your Pendulum STARGAZER MAGIcIaN
Zone, this is its effect. Some Pendulum
Monster Cards may not have Pendulum
Effects.

Pendulum Scale - Pendulum Scale is a
number that determines which monsters
you can Special Summon during a
Pendulum Summon. The Pendulum Scale
of this card is 1.

Monster Effect - When you play this
card as a regular Monster Card, this is
its effect. Some Pendulum Monster Cards
may not have monster effects.


16
You can Special Summon
monsters with
Levels 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7.


Whenever one of your Pendulum Monster Cards on the field
(regardless of which Zone it is in, or even if it is a monster or
not) would be sent to the Graveyard, place it face-up on your
Extra Deck instead. You can Pendulum Summon it back to the field
later! Monsters Pendulum Summoned from the Extra Deck must be
Summoned to the Extra Monster Zone or your Main Monster Zone
pointed to by a Link Monster.
17
---
XYZ MONSTERS
XYZ MONSTERS HOW TO XYZ SUMMON
D Xyz Summoning is your cool and easy way to Special Summon
Xyz Monsters from your Extra Deck. Here’s how to do it!
Xyz Monsters (pronounced “ik- Choose an Xyz Monster from your Extra Deck
seez”) are a powerful kind of 1 that you have the right Xyz Materials for. The
monster! You can Summon an Xyz Materials should be face-up on your field.
Xyz Monster whenever you
control monsters that are the During your Main Phase, declare that you are
same Level. Xyz Monsters start 2 Xyz Summoning and stack the Xyz Materials on
in your Extra Deck, not in your top of each other.
Main Deck, and wait for you to
call them into action. Take the Xyz Monster from your Extra Deck and
3 put it on top of the stacked Xyz Materials in the
Extra Monster Zone in face-up Attack or Defense
Position.

Materials needed for an Xyz Summon

Xyz Monster’s Rank -
This is the Rank of your Xyz
Monster. Xyz Monsters have
Ranks instead of Levels.
Stronger Xyz Monsters have
higher Ranks. This is a Rank
4 Xyz Monster.
If there is a Link Monster on the field, you can Xyz Summon a monster in
one of your zones it points to.








Xyz Materials -
These are the Xyz Materials
you need to Summon this
monster. You use 2 Level 4
Monsters as the Xyz Materials
to Summon this monster. Xyz
Materials must be face-up
before you can use them.

18



LEVEL 4 LEVEL 4 Xyz Summon!


When an Xyz Monster tells you to “detach” a material, take one of the
stacked Xyz Material cards beneath your Xyz Monster and put it in the
Graveyard.
19
---
SYNCHRO MONSTERS
SYNCHRO MONSTERS

Synchro Monsters are placed in the
Extra Deck, separate from the Main
Deck. You can Special Summon a
powerful Synchro Monster to the
field in an instant just by using the
Levels of your monsters. They can
be Synchro by Summoned 1from the
Extra Deck sending face-up
“Tuner” monster and any number
of face-up non-Tuner monsters from
your field to the Graveyard, when
the sum of all their Levels is exactly
equal to the Level of the Synchro
Monster.

TUNER MONSTERS FOR SYNCHRO SUMMON
TUNER MONSTERS FOR SYNCHRO SUMMON


HOW TO SYNCHRO SUMMON
During your Main Phase, you can declare a Synchro Summon when
the combined total Levels of 1 face-up Tuner monster and any
1 number of other face-up monsters you control are equal to the
Level of the Synchro Monster you want to Synchro Summon.



After double-checking the Level of the Synchro Monster you
want, send the face-up Synchro Materials from your field to the
2 Graveyard.


After sending the Synchro Materials from the field to the
Graveyard, take the Synchro Monster from your Extra Deck and
3 play it in the Extra Monster Zone in face-up Attack or Defense
Position.

If there is a Link Monster on the field, you can Synchro Summon a
monster in one of your zones it points to.

In order to Synchro Summon LEVEL 3 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 5
a Synchro Monster, you need
1 Tuner (look for “Tuner” next
to its Type). The Tuner monster
and other face-up monsters you
use for the Synchro Summon are
called Synchro Materials. The
sum of their Levels is the Level + =
of Synchro Monster you can
Summon.
Tuner Non-Tuner Monster Synchro Summon!
20 21
---
FUSION MONSTERS
FUSION MONSTERS RITUAL MONSTERS
RITUAL MONSTERS

Fusion Monsters are also placed Ritual Monsters are special monsters
in your Extra Deck (not in your that are Special Summoned with a
Main Deck). They are Summoned specific Ritual Spell Card, along with
by
Fusion a onthe the using Materials)cardmonstersspecific a required Tribute. Ritual Monster
listed (called Cards are placed in the Main Deck and
combined
with Summoning card like cannot be Summoned unless you have
Polymerization. They usually all the proper cards together in your
have special abilities and very hand or on the field. Ritual Monsters
high Attack Points as well. Since generally have high ATK and DEF and
Fusion Summons require specific some have special abilities, just like
cards, be sure and include those Fusion Monsters.
necessary cards in your Main
Deck!

HOW TO FUSION SUMMON HOW TO RITUAL SUMMON
If you have all the Fusion Materials listed When you have a Ritual Spell Card, along with the matching Ritual
on the Fusion Monster Card, in the places Monster Card, in your hand, along with the required Tribute (as
1 specified on your Summoning card, you can
activate your Summoning card by placing it in 1 listed on the Ritual Spell Card), you can activate the Ritual Spell Card,
your Spell & Trap Zone. placing it in the Spell & Trap Zone.
Send the Fusion Materials to the Graveyard, then
take the appropriate Fusion Monster from your
2 Extra Deck and play it in the Extra Monster Zone
in either face-up Attack or Defense Position. If the activation of the Ritual Spell Card is successful,
2 Tribute monsters by sending them from your hand or
Finally, place your Summoning card in the the field to the Graveyard. The Ritual Spell Card will
Graveyard. (If another card effect causes your list the required amount to Tribute.
3 Fusion Materials to be sent to a place other Polymerization
than the Graveyard when your Summoning card After sending the Tributed monsters to the Graveyard,
resolves, send them to that other place, but the Fusion Summon still play the Ritual Monster Card in your Main Monster
happens anyway.) 3 Zone in either face-up Attack or Defense Position.
If there is a Link Monster on the field, you can Fusion Summon a Finally, place the Ritual Spell Card in the Graveyard. Ritual Spell Card
monster in one of your zones it points to.
22 23
---
Summoning Monster Cards
Summoning Monster Cards If you Tribute Summon in face-down Defense Position, it is calledYou can do one of these once per turnThere are several ways to play monsters onto the field. These waysa Tribute Set. A monster Tribute Set on the field is NOT considered
can be categorized into 2 groups: actions that can be done only once Summoned.
per turn, and actions that can be done multiple times per turn. Note: When a card explains a special method to Tribute Summon a
monster, you can also Tribute Set the monster by the same method.
Normal Summon Flip Summon
Game CardsThis is the most common way to Summon a monster. Simply play You can change a face-down Defense Position monster into face- Game Cards
a Monster Card from your hand onto the field in face-up Attack up Attack Position, without using a card effect. This is called a Flip
Position. All Normal Monsters, and most Effect Monsters (unless Summon. When you Flip Summon, you cannot change the monster to
they have a specific restriction), can be Summoned in this way. face-up Defense Position, only to face-up Attack Position. A Monster
Normal Set Card cannot be Flip Summoned in the same turn that it was Set onto
To play a Monster Card from your hand in face-down Defense the field. You cannot use most monsters’ effects until they are face-up.
Position is called a Normal Set. A monster Normal Set on the Special Summon
field is NOT considered Summoned. It has been Normal Set, and Some monsters can be played onto the field without being Normal
can be Summoned with a Flip Summon or flipped face-up by an Summoned or Set. This is called a Special Summon. Pendulum Summons,
attack or card effect. Remember, you can only Normal Summon Xyz Summons, Synchro Summons, Fusion Summons and Ritual Summons
OR Normal Set (Normal Summon/Set, in short), once per turn, so are all Special Summons. Some Effect Monsters also have specific
if you Normal Set a monster you cannot also Normal Summon a conditions that allow you to Special Summon them. Unless otherwise
monster that turn. specified, a Special Summoned monster is played onto the field in your
Note: You cannot play a monster from your hand onto the field choice of face-up Attack Position or face-up Defense Position.
in face-up Defense Position.
Tribute Summon Special Summon with a Card’s Effect
For monsters that are Level 5 or higher, you must Tribute at least Monsters can also be Special Summoned onto the field through the effect
1 monster you control before the Normal Summon/Set. This is of another card. This is different from “Special Summon Monsters.” You
called a Tribute Summon. Monsters that are Level 5 or 6 require cannot use a card effect to Special Summon those monsters from yourYou can do as many of these during a turn as you want
1 Tribute and Monsters that are Level 7 or higher require 2 Tributes. hand, Deck, or the Graveyard unless it was properly Special Summoned
first. For example, if a Synchro Monster is sent from your Extra Deck
Level 5, 6 Level 7 or higher to the Graveyard without being Synchro Summoned, you cannot use a
Spell Card to Special Summon it from the Graveyard, because Synchro
1 Tribute 2 Tributes Monsters have to be properly Special Summoned first, before they can
be Special Summoned by another card’s effect.
24 25
---
Spell & Trap Cards
Spell & Trap Cards 1 Card Name 2 Type
Remember, cards with the same Instead of having an Attribute
HOW TO READ A CARD name are considered to be the symbol like Monster Cards, a
same card, and you can only Spell Card has the “SPELL 魔”
Spell Card have up to 3 copies of the same symbol and a Trap Card has the
card in your Main Deck and Side “TRAP 罠” symbol.
2 Type Deck combined.
Game Cards Game Cards
3 Icon
3 Icon There are 6 types of icons that represent special properties a Spell or
Trap Card may have. Spell and Trap Cards without an icon are called
Normal Spell Cards or Normal Trap Cards.

5 Card Number
Equip Field Quick-Play

Ritual Continuous Counter

1 Card Name 4 Card Description 5 Card Number
Each card’s activation A card’s identification number is
conditions and effects are found here. This number is useful
provided here. Read the card for collecting, and for sorting
description carefully and follow your collection.
the instructions.
4 Card Description

Trap Card
26 27
---
<<< Spell Cards Continuous Spell Cards
These cards remain on the field once they are activated, and their effect
Spell Cards can normally be continues while the card stays face-up on the field. By using Continuous Spell
activated only during your Main Cards, you can create lasting positive effects with a single card, which is great
Phase, and help you out with but there’s the chance that the opponent will remove it from the field before
different effects. Spell Cards you benefit from the effect.
Game Cards have many powerful effects, Game Cards
like destroying other cards or
strengthening monsters. Save Equip Spell Cards Field Spell Cards
these cards in your hand until
you can get the best results out These cards give an extra effect to These cards go in your Field Zone
of them. 1 face-up monster of your choice and stay there. Each player can have
(either your own or your opponent’s, 1 Field Spell Card on their own side
depending on the card). They remain of the field. To use another Field
on the field after they are activated. Spell, send your previous one to the
1The Equip Spell Card affects only
monster (called the equipped Graveyard. Many Field Spell effects
apply to BOTH players.
monster), but still occupies one of
Normal Spell Cards your Spell & Trap Zones. If possible, These cards may be placed face-
place it in the zone directly behind down in the Field Zone, but are not
Normal Spell Cards have single-use effects. To use a Normal Spell Card, the equipped monster to help you active until flipped face-up.
announce its activation to your opponent, placing it face-up on the field. remember. If the equipped monster
If the activation succeeds, then you resolve the effect written on the card. is destroyed, flipped face-down, or
After resolving the effect, send the card to the Graveyard. removed from the field, its Equip
Cards are destroyed.


Ritual Spell Cards

These Spell Cards are used to perform Ritual Summons. Use these cards
in the same way as you would use Normal Spell Cards.
Quick-Play Spell Cards
These are special Spell Cards that can be activated during any Phase of
your turn, not just your Main Phase. You can also activate them during your
opponent’s turn if you Set the card face-down first, but then you cannot
activate the card in the same turn you Set it.

28 29
---
<<< Trap Cards Continuous Trap Cards
Just like Continuous Spell Cards, Continuous Trap Cards remain on the field
Trap Cards will help you out with once they are activated and their effects continue while they are face-up on the
different effects, just like Spell field. Some Continuous Trap Cards have abilities similar to the Ignition Effects or
Cards. The big difference between Trigger Effects that can be found on Effect Monster Cards.
them is that you can activate Trap Continuous Trap Cards can have effects that limit your opponent’s options, or
that slowly damage your opponent’s LP.
Game Cards Cards during your opponent’s turn. Game Cards
Many Spell Cards have effects useful
for offense, but Trap Cards have
the ability to surprise the opponent
by disrupting their attacks and
strategies. Using Trap Cards can
sometimes be tricky, since your Counter Trap Cards
opponent might have to do certain These Trap Cards are normally activated in response to the activation of other
things before you can unleash them. cards, and may have abilities like negating the effects of those cards. These
types of Traps are effective against Normal Spell Cards or Normal Trap Cards,
which are otherwise hard to stop, however many Counter Trap Cards require
a cost to activate them.
Normal Trap Cards
Before you can activate a Trap Card, you must Set it on the field first.
You cannot activate a Trap in the same turn that you Set it, but you
can activate it at any time after that—starting from the beginning of
the next turn. The Difference between Set Spell Cards and Set Trap Cards
Normal Trap Cards have single-use effects and once their effects are Spell Cards can be Set face-down on the field like Trap Cards.
resolved, they will be sent to the Graveyard, just like Normal Spell However, the rules for the two types of cards are different.
Cards. They are also similar to Normal Spell Cards because once
activated, their effects are not likely to be stopped. However, your Spell Cards can be activated during the Main Phases even in the
opponent can destroy your face-down Trap Cards on the turn they were same turn that you Set them (except for Quick-Play Spell Cards).
Set, or before the time is right to activate them. Because of this, you Setting them does not allow you to use them on your opponent’s
must be smart about how you use your Trap Cards. turn; they still can only be activated during your Main Phase.
You can Set a Spell Card face-down on the field to bluff your
opponent into thinking you have a powerful Trap.

30 31
---
3 How to Play Preparing to Duel
Preparing to Duel
Before starting a Duel, follow these 4 steps. Also, make sure you
Let the Duel Begin!
Let the Duel Begin! have all your extra items that your Deck might need, like a coin or
How to Duel and How to Win counters.
A single game is called a Duel, and a Duel ends when one player wins
or the game ends in a draw. Duels are played in sets of 3 called a After greeting your opponent, shuffle your Deck thoroughly. Then you may
Match, and the winner of best 2-out-of-3 wins the Match. shuffle and cut your opponent’s Deck (be careful when touching your opponent’s
1 cards).
Winning a Duel
Each player starts a Duel with 8000 LP (Life Points). You win a Duel
if: you reduce your opponent’s LP to 0; if your opponent is unable After cutting, place the Decks face-down in the proper Deck Zones on the field.
How To Playto draw a card; or if a card’s special effect says you win. If you and If using an Extra Deck with Xyz Monsters, Synchro Monsters or Fusion Monsters, How To Play
your opponent both reach 0 LP at the same time, the Duel is declared 2 place it face-down in the Extra Deck Zone.
a draw.

Victory Conditions
• Reduce your opponent’s LP to 0.

• Your opponent is unable to draw a card when they are supposed
to draw.
• Win with a card’s special effect.





Both players show each other their Side Decks, and record the number of cards in
it, also confirming that they have 15 or fewer cards (the cards should be counted
3 face-down). If you exchange cards between your Side and Main Decks after a
Duel, count the cards of your Side Deck for your opponent again to show that the
number of your cards remain the same.

Play rock-paper-scissors or flip a coin. The winner decides to go first or second
in the Duel. For your next Duels, the loser of the previous Duel decides who goes
4 first. If the previous Duel ended in a tie, determine who starts first in the next
Duel with another coin toss, etc.
Finally, draw 5 cards from the top of your Deck; this is your starting hand.

Starting with the first player, it’s time to Duel!

32 33
---
Turn Structure
Turn Structure
A Duel progresses in a series of turns which are divided into phases.
Prepare to Duel


1st Player’s turn

Draw Phase

Draw Phase
This is the first phase. The player whose turn it is (the “turn player”)
draws 1 card from the top of their Deck. A player with no cards left in
their Deck and unable to draw loses the Duel. After you draw, Trap
Cards or Quick-Play Spell Cards can be activated before proceeding
to the Standby Phase.
IMPORTANT: The player who goes first cannot draw during the
Draw Phase of their first turn.

Main Action in this Phase Draw 1 Card (except for the very
1st turn of the Duel).
Standby Phase Possible Other Actions Activate Trap Cards, Quick-Play
How To Play Spell Cards, etc. How To Play

Main Phase 1 Standby Phase
If no battles are conductedSome cards have effects that activate, or costs you must pay, in the
Standby Phase. If you do not have any of these cards on the field, you
Battle Phase can still activate Trap Cards or Quick-Play Spell Cards before moving
on to your Main Phase 1.

Main Phase 2 Main Action in this Phase Resolve card effects that happen
in this phase
Possible Other Actions Activate Trap Cards, Quick-Play
Spell Cards, etc.
End Phase

2nd Player’s turn
34 35
---
Main Phase 1 Battle Phase
This is when you play most of your cards: you can Normal Summon, Now it’s time to battle with your Monster Cards! This phase is divided
Set, or change the battle position of a monster, activate a card’s into steps.
effect, and Set Spell and Trap Cards. These actions can be done in You do not have to conduct a Battle Phase every turn, even if you
any order you want, but some actions have restrictions. have a monster on the field.
IMPORTANT: The player who goes first cannot conduct their
Battle Phase on their first turn.
Possible Actions in this Phase Battle with monsters
Possible Actions in Activate Trap Cards and Quick-
Summon or Set a Monster this Phase
There is no limit to the number of times you can Flip Summon or Play Spell Cards
Special Summon during a turn, but you can only Normal Summon
How To Playor Set a monster (including a Tribute Summon) once per turn. How To Play
Change Your Monsters’ Battle Positions Flow of the
This includes Flip Summoning a monster, or changing the position Start step Battle Phase
of a face-up monster to face-up Attack or Defense Position. You
can change the position of each monster you control, except in
three cases. 1. You cannot change the battle position of a monster
that was played onto the field this turn. 2. You cannot change it
in Main Phase 2 if the monster attacked during the Battle Phase.
3. You cannot change it if you have already changed its battle Battle Step Damage Step
position once this turn.
Active a Card or Effect
Active a Card or Effect
You can activate Spell and Trap Cards, or the effects of Spell, Trap,
or Effect Monster Cards as many times as you want during this The Battle Phase is split into
phase, as long as you can keep paying any costs involved. 4 steps and is conducted in the
Set Spell Cards and Trap Cards order shown in the diagram. The
You can Set Spell and Trap Cards face-down in your Spell & Trap End Step Battle Step and Damage Step are
Zone during this phase, as long as you have space. repeated each time you attack
with a monster.

36 37
---
Start Step Replay Rules during the Battle Step
This step starts the Battle Phase. The turn player should After you’ve announced your
announce “I’m entering the Battle Phase.” Remember, the player attacking monster and the attack Declare your attacking
who goes first cannot conduct a Battle Phase in their very first target monster during a Battle monster and your attack
turn. Step, the attack target might be target monster.
removed from the field, or a new
monster may be played onto the
Battle Step opponent’s side of the field before
the Damage Step, due to a card’s
Select 1 monster on your side of the field to attack with, and 1 of effect. This causes a “Replay.” The
your opponent’s monsters as your attack target, and then declare When this occurs, you can choose monsters
the attack. If your opponent does not have any monsters on the to attack with the same monster your opponent
field, you can attack directly. Play then proceeds to the Damage again, or choose to attack with a controls change
How To PlayStep. Afterwards, the attacking player returns to the Battle Step, different monster, or choose not How To Play
and repeats this procedure. Each face-up Attack Position monster before the Damage
you control is allowed 1 attack per turn. You do not have to attack to attack at all. Note that if you Step.
with a monster if you don’t want to. attack with a different monster,
the first monster is still considered
to have declared an attack, and it
Damage Step cannot attack again this turn. A replay happens!
In this step, the players calculate the result of the battle and Re-select a target monster.
whatever damage is done. (See “Monster Battle Rules”, page 37.)
After finishing the Damage Step, return to the Battle Step.

End Step
After you’ve resolved all your battles by repeating the Battle and
Damage Steps, and you have no more monsters you want to attack
with, announce to your opponent that you are ending your Battle
Phase.
38 39
---
Main Phase 2 4 Battles and Chains
If you conducted your Battle Phase, your turn moves to Main Phase 2 Monster Battle Rules
Monster Battle Rules
afterwards. The actions a player can perform in this phase are the same
as in Main Phase 1. However, if the player already did something in Main
Phase 1 that has a limit to the number of times it can be done, the player DAMAGE STEP RULES
cannot do it again in Main Phase 2. Consider if you want to activate and During the Damage Step, there are limits on what cards you can
Set Spell & Trap Cards, or Summon or Set a monster (if you didn’t do that activate. Also, during the Damage Step, Flip effects resolve a bit
in Main Phase 1) based on your situation after the Battle Phase. Use this differently than they normally do.
phase to prepare for the opponent’s turn. Limitations on Activating Cards
Possible Actions in this Phase During the Damage Step, you can only activate Counter Trap Cards,
Summon or Set a monster or cards with effects that directly change a monster’s ATK or DEF.
How To PlayChange your monsters’ battle positions Also, these cards can only be activated up until the start of damage
Active a card or effect calculation.
Set Spell Cards and Trap Cards Attacking a Face-Down Card
If you attack a face-down Defense Position monster, flip the card to
face-up Defense Position in the Damage Step. Now you can see the
End Phase monster’s DEF and then calculate damage. Battles and Chains
Announce the end of your turn, and if there are any cards on the Activation of a Flip Effect
field which say “…during the End Phase…” in their text, resolve When an attacked monster is flipped face-up, any Flip effects are
those effects in this phase. If you have more than 6 cards in your activated and resolved after damage calculation. If you need to select
hand at the end of this phase, select and discard cards to the a monster for the Flip effect to target, you cannot target a monster
Graveyard until you only have 6 cards in your hand. that has already been destroyed during damage calculation.
Resolve card effects which For more info on the Damage Step, please visit:
activate in this phase www.yugioh-card.com/en/gameplay/damage_step/
Actions in this Phase Discard if you have more than
6 cards in hand
Possible Other Actions Activate Trap Cards and Quick-Play
in this Phase Spell Cards
40 41
---
DETERMINING DAMAGE When You Attack a Defense Position MonsterWINTIELOSEYou calculate battle damage based on the battle position of the
monster you are attacking. If you attack an Attack Position monster, ATK of Attacking DEF of Opponent’s
compare ATK vs. ATK. If you attack a Defense Position monster, Monster VS. Monster
compare your monster’s ATK vs. the attacked monster’s DEF.
When You Attack an Attack Position Monster When your attacking monster’s ATK is higher than the DEF of
the opponent’s monster, the attacking monster destroys the
opponent’s monster and sends it to the Graveyard.
ATK of Attacking VS. ATK of Opponent’s Neither player takes any battle damage.
Monster Monster

When your attacking monster’s ATK is higher than the ATK of When your attacking monster’s ATK is equal to the DEF of the
the opponent’s monster, the attacking monster destroys the opponent’s monster, neither monster is destroyed.
opponent’s monster and sends it to the Graveyard. Neither player takes any battle damage.
The amount that your attacking monster’s ATK exceeds the
ATK of your opponent’s monster is subtracted from your
opponent’s LP as battle damage. When your attacking monster’s ATK is lower than the DEF of
Battles and Chains the opponent’s monster, neither monster is destroyed. Battles and Chains
When your attacking monster’s ATK is equal to the ATK of the The amount that the opponent’s monster’s DEF exceeds the
opponent’s monster, the result is considered a tie, and both ATK of your attacking monster is subtracted from your LP as
monsters are destroyed. battle damage.
Neither player takes any battle damage.

When your attacking monster’s ATK is lower than the ATK of If Your Opponent Has No MonstersWINTIELOSEthe opponent’s monster, the attacking monster is destroyedIf there are no monsters on your opponent’s side of the field, you
and sent to the Graveyard. can attack directly. The full amount of your attacking monster’s ATK
The amount that the opponent’s monster’s ATK exceeds the is subtracted from the opponent’s LP as battle damage.
ATK of your attacking monster is subtracted from your LP as
battle damage.
42 43
---
Chains and Spell Speed
Chains and Spell Speed Spell Speeds
Spell, Trap, and Effect Monster effects have different Spell Speeds.
WHAT IS A CHAIN? There are Spell Speeds from 1 to 3. You can only respond with an
Chains are a way to order the resolution of multiple card effects. effect if it is Spell Speed 2 or higher, and has an equal or greater Spell
They are used when the effects of more than 1 card are activated Speed than the effect on the Chain Link before it.
at once (see page 46), or when a player wants to use an effect after Spell Speed 1

a card has been played, but BEFORE that card has an effect on the Spells (Normal, Equip, Continuous, Field, Ritual),
game. Effect Monster’s effects (Ignition, Trigger, and Flip)
If a card’s effect is activated, the opponent is always given a chance This is the slowest of all Spell Speeds. These cards cannot be
to respond with a card effect of their own, creating a Chain. If your activated in response to any other effects. Typically, these effects
opponent responds with an effect, then you can choose to respond cannot be Chain Link 2 or higher, unless multiple Spell Speed 1
and add another effect to the Chain. If your opponent does not effects are activated simultaneously.
respond, you may activate a second effect and create a Chain to
your own card’s activation. Both players continue to add effects to Spell Speed 2
the Chain until they both wish to add nothing else, then you resolve Traps (Normal, Continuous), Quick-Play Spells,
the outcome in reverse order – starting with the last card that was Effect Monster’s Quick Effects
activated.
You must always be careful not to resolve the effects of your cards These cards can be used to respond to a Spell Speed 1 or 2 effect, and
Battles and Chainsbefore asking your opponent if they wish to make a Chain. Battles and Chains
can typically be activated during any phase.

SPELL SPEED
Every type of card effect has a Spell Speed between 1 and 3. If you
want to respond to a card effect in a Chain, you have to use an effect
with Spell Speed 2 or higher, and it cannot have a lower Spell Speed
than the effect you are responding to. Please see page 41 for an
introduction to each type of card’s Spell Speed.



Spell Speed 3

Counter Trap

This is the fastest of all Spell Speeds and can be used to respond to
a card of any Spell Speed. Only another Spell Speed 3 card may be
used to respond to these cards.

44 45
---
How a Chain Works EXAMPLE OF A CHAIN
Order of resolutionOrder of activationPlayer A plays “Heavy Storm” and Player B responds by activating
[Chain Complete] their Set “Threatening Roar.” Then, Player A responds to that by
activating “Seven Tools of the Bandit.”
In this case, Chain Links are stacked up as seen below.
[Chain Link 4]
Spell Speed 2 or 3 card used Chain Link
against Chain Link 3 “Seven Tools of the Bandit” Spell Speed 3
3 Negates the effect of “Threatening Roar”
[Chain Link 3]
Spell Speed 2 or 3 card used Chain Link “Threatening Roar” Spell Speed 2
against Chain Link 2 2 Prevents the opponent from declaring attacks this turn.
[Chain Link 2] Chain Link “Heavy Storm” Spell Speed 1
Spell Speed 2 or 3 card used 1 Destroys all Spell and Trap Cards on the field.
Battles and Chains against Chain Link 1 Battles and Chains
[Chain Link 1] ”Seven Tools of the Bandit” (Chain Link 3) is resolved first and
Spell Speed 1 or 2 card that’s negates the activation of “Threatening Roar.”
used “Threatening Roar” (Chain Link 2) would then be resolved, but the
effect of “Seven Tools of the Bandit” stops its activation. The turn
As shown in the diagram above, the first effect activated is Chain player will still be able to declare attacks.
Link 1. The next effect is Chain Link 2, and so on. Every time a new Then the effect of “Heavy Storm” (Chain Link 1) is resolved
Chain Link is made, they are stacked up in the order that the cards successfully, destroying all Spell and Trap Cards on the field,
are activated. Once the Chain is completed, the outcome is resolved allowing the turn player to attack without interference from Spell
starting with the most recent card to be activated at the top of the or Trap Cards.
Chain and proceeding down to Chain Link 1.46 47
---
TURN PLAYER’S PRIORITY 5 Other Rules
The turn player always starts with Priority, or the choice to Forbidden & Limited Cards
activate a card first, in each phase or step of their turn. As long as
the turn player has Priority, the opponent cannot activate cards Normally, your Deck (including Extra Deck and Side Deck) can
or effects, except for effects that activate automatically, like contain up to 3 copies of a card that has the same name. However,
Trigger or Flip effects. certain cards have specific quantity restrictions that further limit the
The turn player can either: number that can be included in a Deck.
• Use Priority to play a card or activate an effect OR There are 3 types of restrictions: Limited cards are restricted to
• Pass Priority to the opponent so they can activate an effect. 1 copy in a Deck, while Semi-Limited cards are restricted to 2 copies
in a Deck. Forbidden cards are not allowed to be included at all.
The list of Forbidden and Limited cards is updated regularly and is
A player must pass Priority to the opponent when moving on to posted on the Yu-Gi-Oh! TCG Official Website.
the next phase or step. Strictly speaking, you would always declare This list is applied to official tournaments so please check it before
that you’re passing Priority before the end of every phase and participating.
step, and ask your opponent if they wish to play a card. However, Official Website: www.yugioh-card.com
for ease of play, announcing the end of your phases or steps Monster Tokens
implies giving up Priority. Therefore, when announcing the end of
Battles and Chainsa phase, your opponent can just say “Before the end of your phase, Monster Tokens are monsters that appear on the field as the result
I activate this card” and use a card. of a card’s effect. They are not included in the Deck, and cannot be
sent anywhere other than the field, such as the hand or Graveyard.
• The turn player starts with Priority to activate a card or effect When a Token is destroyed or returned to the hand or Deck, they are
first. simply removed from the field instead.
• After a card’s activation, and at the end of each phase or step, You can use official Token cards or use coins,
Priority passes to the opponent. card sleeves, or any similar marker (as long
as it can indicate Attack Position or Defense
Position) as Monster Tokens and play them in
Monster Zones. Each Monster Token takes up 1 Other Rules
of your 5 Monster Zones. Their battle position
is always either face-up Attack Position or face-
up Defense Position. Tokens cannot be used as
an Xyz Material. Tokens on the field are treated
48 as Normal Monsters. 49
---
Public Knowledge Counters
The number of cards in a player’s hand and Decks, the cards in their You may need to place these on cards for some card effects. You
Graveyards, and each player’s current LP are all public knowledge cannot place counters unless a card effect allows it. Cards may have
and both players can verify these things at any time. If asked, you effects that change with the number of counters on them, or require
must answer these things to your opponent truthfully. You are you to remove counters as a cost. Some counters have specific
allowed to pick up and verify the cards in your opponent’s Graveyard names, such as “Spell Counter” or “Clock Counter.” Other than their
but you must ask their permission first. Also, you may not change the names, each individual counter itself does not have any effects.
order of the cards when verifying their Graveyard. Actions which cannot be Chained to
If both players conduct actions simultaneously You can only create a Chain by responding to the activation of a card
For cases like “Each player targets 1 monster,” where both players or effect. Summoning a monster, Tributing, changing a monster’s
resolve an effect simultaneously, the turn player resolves the effect battle position and paying costs are not effect activations and
first. In this example, after the turn player makes their selection, the therefore you cannot respond to those actions using a Chain.
other player makes theirs. Xyz Materials
When multiple cards are activated simultaneously Monsters that are used to Xyz Summon are called “Xyz Materials”,
If effects of Spell Speed 1 cards (like Trigger Effects) are activated at and are placed underneath the Xyz Monster, to show that they are
the same time, they will be resolved in a special Chain. This Chain is attached to it. Monsters that have become Xyz Materials are not
made starting with the turn player’s mandatory effects. If there is only treated as cards on the field. When an Xyz Monster leaves the field,
1 effect, that will be Chain Link 1. If there are 2 or more effects, the turn all of the Xyz Materials attached to it are sent to the Graveyard. If
player builds the Chain starting with their mandatory effects, in any an Xyz Monster is flipped face-down, or becomes controlled by the
order. Then the opponent continues the Chain with their mandatory opponent, the Xyz Materials are not sent to the Graveyard. They
effects in any order. Afterwards, the turn player adds their optional remain attached to the Xyz Monster.
effects in any order, and finally the opponent adds their optional
effects in any order. Leaves the Field
0 ATK monsters Some monsters have effects that activate when they “leave the field”.
Monsters with 0 ATK cannot destroy anything by battle. If two Attack For example, these effects activate when the monster is sent to
Position monsters with 0 ATK battle each other, neither monster is the Graveyard, or is banished, or is returned to the hand or Extra
Other Rulesdestroyed. Deck. When a monster on the field is shuffled into the Main Deck, or Other Rules
becomes an Xyz Material, it is no longer a card on the field, however
Rules vs. Card Effects its effects that activate when it “leaves the field” will not activate.
If there is a discrepancy between the basic rules and a card’s effect, the
card effect takes precedence. For example, a monster can only attack
once per turn, but with a card effect, it is possible to attack twice.
50 51
---
Glossary
Glossary l Control / Possess
Cards you “control” are the cards in your Monster Zone, Spell & Trap Zone,
l Attack Directly Field Zone, and Pendulum Zone. Cards in your “possession” include all cards
Attacking directly means that a monster attacks a player instead of you control, plus the cards in your hand, Deck, Extra Deck, Graveyard, your
attacking a monster. In this case, the damage to the player will be equal banished cards, cards in the middle of being Summoned to your side of the
to the monster’s ATK. Some monsters have an effect that allows them to field, and Xyz Materials attached to monsters you control. If a player takes
attack directly even if the opponent controls a monster. control of a card from their opponent, move it to the new controller’s side
l Banished Cards (Previously Remove from Play) of the field. If sent to the Graveyard, or returned to the hand or Deck, it
Although a card that has been used is normally sent to the Graveyard, is always returned to the Graveyard / hand / Deck of the original owner.
a card which is banished is separated from the field instead. You must l Destroy
return your banished cards so you can use them for the next Duel. A card is destroyed when it is sent to the Graveyard due to battle
l Battle / Battled between monsters or by an effect that destroys a card. A card that
A monster “battles” (and is “battling”) starting from when it attacks or is returned from the field to the hand or Deck, or, that is sent to
is attacked. This includes both monsters attacking other monsters, and the Graveyard as a cost or Tribute, is NOT considered “destroyed.”
monsters attacking a player’s Life Points directly. When a card requires a l Discard
monster to have “battled” (past tense), the attack had to have reached the Discard means to send a card from your hand to the Graveyard.
damage calculation portion of the Damage Step in order for the monster to This can happen because of a card effect or by adjusting the
have “battled”. If the attack stops before damage calculation, the monster number of cards in your hand during the End Phase.
did not “battle”. (Note that an attack was still declared, however, so in l Effects of Cards
most cases the attacking monster cannot declare another attack. The effect of a card is the special ability written on it, like the effect
l Battle Damage
Battle damage is damage inflicted to a player by an attacking monster, of a Spell, Trap, or Effect Monster. Costs that are needed to activate
or by a battle between two monsters. This is different from damage from an ability are not part of the effect. The conditions that describe
the effect of an Effect Monster, Spell Card or Trap Card. how to play a “Special Summon Monster” are also not an effect.
l Cards on the Field l Equip Cards
When “cards on the field” is written in card text, it means all the cards on In addition to Equip Spell Cards, sometimes Trap Cards or Monster Cards
the Game Mat other than the Graveyard, Deck, and Extra Deck. can become equipped to a monster. Equipped Traps remain Trap Cards, but
l Colon (:) and Semi-colon (;) equipped monsters are considered to be Equip Spells. The term “Equip Card”
Other RulesCard effects are sometimes separated with a colon (:) and/or semi-colon (;). includes all 3 kinds (standard Equip Spells, equipped Traps, and monsters Other Rules
Text before the colon gives information on conditions to activate the effect, equipped to other monsters).If a Monster Card is equipped to another
and timing on when it happens. Text before a semi-colon is what you do monster, it remains equipped to that monster and cannot be moved to a
when the effect is activated. Text at the end of a sentence, after all colons different target, even by card effects that would normally be able to do so.
and semi-colons, is what you do at resolution of the effect. EXCEPTION: Union monsters equipped by their own effects can be moved
by appropriate card effects.
52 53
---
l Equipped Monster l Reveal
A monster that is equipped with an Equip Card is an “equipped monster.” When an effect says to reveal a card, you show it to both players. You
When this monster is destroyed or flipped face-down, the equipped may have to reveal a face-down card, a card from your hand, or from the
card loses its target, and is destroyed and sent to the Graveyard. top of your Deck. Revealing a card does not activate the card or its Flip
l Excavate effect. Normally, revealed cards are returned to their original position
after being looked at by both players.
When a card says to “excavate” cards from your Deck, you reveal those l Search your Deck
cards to both players. Then, before you do anything else, apply the Whenever an effect instructs you to add a card from your Deck to your
instructions from the card effect that excavated them. Cards that are hand, or to Special Summon a monster from your Deck, you can pick
being excavated are still treated as being in the Deck until sent elsewhere up your Deck and search through it for the appropriate card. You must
by the card instructions. shuffle your Deck after any time you search it and let your opponent
l Original ATK (or DEF) shuffle or cut. You cannot activate an effect to search your Deck for a
The Original ATK (or DEF) is the number of ATK (or DEF) points printed on card if there are no cards that meet the requirements in your Deck.
the Monster Card. This does not include an increase from an Equip Spell l Send to the Graveyard
Card or other card effect. A card can be sent to the Graveyard in various ways. Destroying a card,
l Pay a Cost discarding, and Tributing a monster are all actions that send a card to
To pay a cost is an action required by a player in order to activate a card, the Graveyard, and will normally activate “When this card is sent to the
an effect, or to Summon a monster. Tributing to Tribute Summon a Level Graveyard…” Trigger Effects.
5 monster is an example of a cost. Other common costs are discarding, EXCEPTION: When a banished card is moved to the Graveyard, it is not
paying LP, or banishing cards. You have to pay any costs before you considered to be “sent to the Graveyard”.
declare the activation of the card. Even if the activation of the card is l Set
negated, you cannot get a refund of the cost that you have paid. Playing a card face-down is called a Set. For Monster Cards, playing it in
l Piercing Battle Damage face-down Defense Position is called a Set. Any card that is face-down
Some monsters can inflict piercing battle damage when they attack a on the field is a Set card.
Defense Position monster. This means that you inflict damage to your l Shuffle
opponent’s LP equal to the difference between the attacking monster’s There is no rule for how to shuffle, but while shuffling you cannot look at
ATK and the defending monster’s DEF. the cards you are shuffling, or arrange the cards and then shuffle them.
Other Rulesl Random l Tribute Other Rules
When a card effect says to choose a card randomly, there is no official Tributing is sending a monster you control to the Graveyard. You can
way of doing so, it is fine as long as neither player has a way of knowing Tribute a face-up or face-down monster, unless otherwise specified.
which card is being chosen. Tributing a monster is one possible cost for Summoning a monster or
activating an effect. A monster sent to the Graveyard by Tributing is not
treated as “destroyed.”
54 55